# Problem Set 2

Assigned Problems: 2.1.5, 2.1.7, 2.2.1, 2.2.15, 2.2.20a

---

(2.1.5) Assume $xyz=1$ holds for a group $G$. Does it follow that $yzx=1$? That $yxz=1?$

If $xyz=1$, then $xy=z^{-1}$ and $yz=x^{-1}$, by the associativity property of groups. This means that $(yz)x$ must also equal $1$, since $xx^{-1} = x^{-1}x = e$. $yxz$ does not necessarily equal $e$, since if $G$ is non-abelian, then $xy$ may not equal $yx$.

(2.1.7) Let $S$ be any set. Prove that the law of composition defined by $ab=a$ is associative.

Say $\lbrace \alpha, \beta, \gamma\ \rbrace \sub S$, and take the above composition. Then $(\alpha \beta)\gamma = \alpha \gamma = \alpha$, and $\alpha (\beta \gamma) = \alpha \beta = \alpha$.

(2.2.1) Determine the elements of the cyclic group generated by the matrix 
$
\newcommand{\matrix}[4]{
    \left( {\begin{array}{cc} 
    #1 & #2 \\
    #3 & #4 \\
    \end{array} }
    \right)
}
\newcommand{\defaultmatrix}{\matrix{1}{1}{-1}{0}}
\defaultmatrix
$
explicity.

Let $\defaultmatrix = \alpha \in GL_{2}(\R)$

$\alpha^{2} = \defaultmatrix \defaultmatrix = \matrix{0}{1}{-1}{-1}$

$\alpha^{3} = \matrix{0}{1}{-1}{-1} \defaultmatrix = \matrix{-1}{0}{0}{-1}$

$\alpha^{4} = \matrix{-1}{0}{0}{-1} \defaultmatrix = \matrix{-1}{-1}{1}{0}$

$\alpha^{5} = \matrix{-1}{-1}{1}{0} \defaultmatrix = \matrix{0}{-1}{1}{1}$

$\alpha^{6} = \matrix{0}{-1}{1}{1} \defaultmatrix = \matrix{1}{0}{0}{1}$

$\alpha^{7} = \matrix{1}{0}{0}{1} \defaultmatrix = \matrix{1}{1}{-1}{0} = \alpha$

(2.2.15a) In the definition of a subgroup, the identity element in $H$ is required to be the identity of $G$. One might require only that $H$ have an identity element, not that it is the same as the identity in $G$. Show that if $H$ has an identity at all, then it is the identity in $G$, so this definition would be equivalent to the one given.

First, the identity in $G$ is unique.

**Proof:** Assume not, and call these two elements $\alpha, \beta$. Then, $\alpha \beta = \beta$ since $\alpha$ is an identity, but $\alpha \beta = \alpha$ because $\beta$ is an identity. Thus, $\alpha = \beta$ and we have uniqueness.

Now, take $h \in H$. Since $H$ is a subgroup, $\exists h^{-1}\in H$, so $hh^{-1} = e \in H \implies e \in G$. But, by above, the identity is unique, so $e$ is **the** identity in $G$ and $H$.

(2.2.15b) Show the analogous thing for inverses

First, we have that inverses are unique in $G$

**Proof:** Assume not and say that $\alpha$ has two inverses $\beta, \gamma$. Then, $\gamma \alpha \beta = \gamma (\alpha \beta) = \gamma$, but $\gamma \alpha \beta = (\gamma \alpha) \beta = \beta$. Therefore, $\gamma = \beta$.

Thus, if we have $h \in H$, since $H$ is a subgroup, there must be a $h^{-1} \in H \implies h^{-1} \in G$, and this inverse is unique.

(2.2.20a) Let $a, b$ be elements of an abelian group with orders $m$ and $n$, respectively. What can you say about their product, $ab$?

The order of $ab$ is the least common multiple of $m$ and $n$. This is the *smallest* number for which $m$ and $n$ are divisors, so $a^{lcm(m, n)}$ and $b^{lcm(m, n)}$ are both equal to $e$.

Then, since $a, b$ are members of an *abelian* group, $(ab)^{lcm(m, n)} = a^{lcm(m, n)}b^{lcm(m, n)} = e$.